# Introduction
## Who Should Read This Book?
[W] `At the very least`, it should be an invaluable reference for your bookshelf.
# I. Background

[W] This book doesn't cover `every last bit of` WPF. (In particular, XML Paper Specification [XPS] documents are given only `a small bit of` attention.) `WPF's surface` is so large that I don't believe any single book can. But I think you'll be pleased with `the breadth and depth` achieved by this book.

[W] Chapter 3 highlights the most unique pieces of WPF's programming model `above and beyond` what .NET programmers already understand.
___
##1. Why WPF, and What About Silverlight?
[W] crumple (krŭm′pəl)
> crumple - to gather something into small wrinkles or folds; "She puckered her lips"

- =pucker, rumple, cockle, knit
- <>draw - contract; "The material drew after it was washed in hot water"
- <>crease, crinkle, crisp, ruckle, scrunch up, wrinkle, scrunch - make wrinkles or creases on a smooth surface; make a pressed, folded or wrinkled line in; "The dress got wrinkled"; "crease the paper like this to make a crane"

Throughout the movie, we're treated to various visual features of the program: a spinning three-dimensional "e," messages that unfold when you open them and `crumple` when you delete them, hints of linking support, and slick animations when you print messages.

[W] leave it at that
>to say or do no more about something *I've simply decided to quit – let's leave it at that.*

(The email program isn't even the most unrealistic software in the movie. I'll just say "virtual reality database" and `leave it at that`.)

[W] compelling (kəm-pĕl′ĭng)
>compelling - tending to persuade by forcefulness of argument; "new and compelling evidence"

- <>persuasive - intended or having the power to induce action or belief; "persuasive eloquence"; "a most persuasive speaker"; "a persuasive argument"

Usability issues aside, Hollywood has been telling us for a long time that software in the real world isn't as `compelling` as it should be.

[W] catch up

1. To move fast enough to attain the same progress as another; draw even: *caught up to the leader on the last lap of the race.*
2. To become equal or on a par with another: *finally caught up with his brother in height.*
3. To bring an activity to completion or to a state of currentness: *catch up on correspondence.*
4. To bring (another) up to date; brief: *Let me catch you up on all the gossip.*
5. To seize or lift suddenly: *The wind caught up the umbrella and carried it off.*
6. To involve, often unwillingly: *was caught up in the scandal.*
7. To captivate; enthrall: *I was caught up in the mood of the evening.*

But lately, real-world software has been `catching up to` Hollywood's standards!

[W] iteration (ĭt′ə-rā′shən)
>A form, adaption, or version of something: *the latest iteration of a popular app.*

- iteration - doing or saying again; a repeated performance
- <>repeating, repetition - the act of doing or performing again

Modern software usually needs to support rapid `iteration` and major user interface changes throughout the process—whether such changes are driven by professional graphic designers, developers with a knack for designing user interfaces, or a boss who wants the product to be more “shiny” and animated.

The Win32 style of programming, in which controls directly contain code to paint and repaint themselves, makes rapid user `iteration` far too difficult for most projects.
### A Look at the Past
[W] supplant (sə-plănt′)
>supplant - take the place or move into the position of; "Smith replaced Miller as CEO after Miller left"; "the computer has supplanted the slide rule"; "Mary replaced Susan as the team's captain and the highest-ranked player in the school"

- =supercede, supersede, supervene upon, replace
- <>replace - substitute a person or thing for (another that is broken or inefficient or lost or no longer working or yielding what is expected); "He replaced the old razor blade"; "We need to replace the secretary that left a month ago"; "the insurance will replace the lost income"; "This antique vase can never be replaced"
- <>put back, replace - put something back where it belongs; "replace the book on the shelf after you have finished reading it"; "please put the clean dishes back in the cabinet when you have washed them"
- <>deputise, deputize, step in, substitute - act as a substitute; "She stood in for the soprano who suffered from a cold"
- <>displace, preempt - take the place of or have precedence over; "live broadcast of the presidential debate preempts the regular news hour"; "discussion of the emergency situation will preempt the lecture by the professor"
- <>usurp - take the place of; "gloom had usurped mirth at the party after the news of the terrorist act broke"
- <>oust - remove and replace; "The word processor has ousted the typewriter"
- <>come after, succeed, follow - be the successor (of); "Carter followed Ford"; "Will Charles succeed to the throne?"

Starting with DirectX 9, Microsoft shipped a DirectX framework for managed code (much like it shipped libraries specifically for Visual Basic in the past), which eventually was `supplanted` by the XNA Framework.

[W] rarely (râr′lē)

1. Not often; infrequently: "The truth is rarely pure and never simple" (Oscar Wilde).
2. Archaic

    a. In an unusual degree; exceptionally: "a rarely good judge of the best in modern literature" (Frank Harris).

    b. With uncommon excellence: "You can write rarely now, after all your schooling" (George Eliot).

>Usage Note: The use of ever after adverbs such as *rarely*, *seldom*, *hardly*, and *scarcely* has often been criticized as redundant, and not without reason. The sentence She rarely ever watches television expresses nothing that is not conveyed by She rarely watches television. While these constructions occur frequently in speech today, in print they are not used at similar rates. For some reason, both historically and in contemporary published prose, rarely ever and seldom ever are not very common, <u>*perhaps because rarely and seldom are more immediately associated with time than hardly, scarcely, and other minimizing adverbs are, and so the overlap with ever is more obvious*</u>. In any case, scarcely ever has a long and distinguished track record of use by admired writers, and appears with some frequency in contemporary prose: "The cold air of the fall morning had blown in through the rusted seams of the sort of vehicle that nobody in her family ever rode in, that scarcely ever appeared on the streets where she lived" (Alice Munro). Similarly, the construction hardly ever also has a long history of use by distinguished writers, including modern ones: "When he was dead I realized that I had hardly ever spoken to him" (James Baldwin). It seems then that scarcely ever and hardly ever, though technically redundant, are valued for their emphatic expressiveness, while rarely ever and seldom ever have not won such favor. They are therefore best avoided. See Usage Note at hardly.

[W] seldom / barely / hardly / scarcely / rarely (http://forum.wordreference.com/showthread.php?t=437803)
>While "seldom" and "rarely" say how often something happens, the others say how easily something happens:

"I can hardly/barely/scarcely do that" (es muy dificil)

"that happens seldom/rarely" (no ocurre con frecuencia)

[W] rarely and barely (https://answers.yahoo.com/question/index?qid=20131108135312AAFjQ68)
>"Rarely" refers to *time*, while "barely" refers to *quantity*. So: 

- "He rarely talks to me." -- Means that he does not often talk to you. 
- "He barely talks to me." -- Means he does not say much to you.

>Something barely there is hardly there at all. So a barely dressed person is nearly naked. 

- Barely is a word meaning *hardly*, *nearly*, *scarcely*, or *marginally*. If there is barely a dusting of snow, there is hardly any snow at all. If your team barely won a game, then they came really close to losing. A person who is barely dressed is scantily dressed: hardly dressed at all. If you barely missed an ice cream truck, then you missed it by seconds. This is a word for near misses and close calls. 
- Strictly speaking, the use of *ever* after rarely and seldom is redundant; She rarely ever watches television adds nothing to She rarely watches television. In an earlier survey a large majority of the Usage Panel found this construction unacceptable in formal writing. But ever has been used as an intensive with rarely for several hundred years, and the construction is common in informal contexts. By contrast, the constructions *rarely (or seldom) if ever* and *rarely (or seldom) or never* are perfectly acceptable: She rarely if ever watches television. She rarely or never watches television. 
- Since <u>*rarely means hardly ever*</u>, one should not say something rarely ever happens. It is grammatically a negative word. It therefore collocates with ever rather than never. 
- Compare "We rarely ever go to the theatre" with "We almost never go to the theatre."

[W] So although you could have developed a Windows-based email program with the 3D effects seen in Disclosure ever since the mid-1990s with non-GDI technologies (actually, probably mixing DirectX or OpenGL with GDI), such technologies are `rarely` used in mainstream Windows applications `even more than a decade later`. There are several reasons for this: The hardware required to get a decent experience hasn’t been ubiquitous until recently, it has been at least an order of magnitude harder to use alternative technologies, and GDI-based experiences have been considered “good enough.”

[W] flaky (flā′kē)
>flaky - conspicuously or grossly unconventional or unusual; "restaurants of bizarre design--one like a hat, another like a rabbit"; "famed for his eccentric spelling"; "a freakish combination of styles"; "his off-the-wall antics"; "the outlandish clothes of teenagers"; "outre and affected stage antics"

- =bizarre, eccentric, gonzo, off-the-wall, outlandish, outre, freaky, flakey, freakish
- <>unconventional - not conventional or conformist; "unconventional life styles"

These types of customizations can not only be expensive to develop, but they also often produce a `flakier` experience.

[W] glitch (glĭch)
>glitch - a fault or defect in a computer program, system, or machine

- =bug
- <>flaw, fault, defect - an imperfection in an object or machine; "a flaw caused the crystal to shatter"; "if there are any defects you should send it back to the manufacturer"

Such applications often aren't as acceptable as they should be, don't handle high dots-per-inch (DPI) settings very well, and have other visual `glitches`.
### Enter WPF

- [T] XAML: Extensible Application Markup Language (pronounced *"Zammel"*)
- [T]IME: Input Method Editor
- [T] XBAP: XAML Browser Applications
- [T] client profile: excludes serveronly .NET pieces such as ASP.NET

[W] opt (ŏpt)
>opt - select as an alternative over another; "I always choose the fish over the meat courses in this restaurant"; "She opted for the job on the East coast"

- =choose, prefer
- <>cop out, opt out - choose not to do something, as out of fear of failing; "She copped out when she was supposed to get into the hang glider"

>opt out

- To choose not to participate in something: "give individual schools the right to opt out of the local educational authority" (Newsweek).

Other performance improvements were made that you must `opt into` due to compatibility constraints, such as improved virtualization and deferred scrolling in items controls, described in Chapter 10, “Items Controls.”

[W] straddle (străd′l)
>straddle - sit or stand astride of

- <>be - occupy a certain position or area; be somewhere; "Where is my umbrella?" "The toolshed is in the back"; "What is behind this behavior?"

WPF `straddles` the line between being automatically DPI independent (which requires ignoring physical pixel boundaries) and having visual elements that look crisp (which, especially for small elements, requires being aligned on pixel boundaries).

I've always claimed that I can spot a user interface created with WPF simply by looking at the **blurriness of its text**.

[W] opt into
>Meaning: Choose to be a member or part of something

- Example: I OPTED INTO the scheme.

Because there are some limitations to the new rendering approach, you must `opt into` it.

[W] offload (ôf′lōd′, ŏf′-)

1. To unload (a vehicle or container).
2. Computers To transfer (data) to a peripheral device.
3. Informal To get rid of and pass on to another: "U.S. farmers and ranchers were forced to look to foreign customers to offload their surpluses" (Paul Roberts).

This means that WPF applications get the benefits of hardware acceleration for smoother graphics and `allaround` better performance (due to work being `offloaded` to graphics processing units [GPUs] instead of central processor units [CPUs]).

[W] WPF controls can be composed in ways `never before seen`.

[W] factor (făk′tər)

- One that actively contributes to an accomplishment, result, or process: "Surprise is the greatest factor in war" (Tom Clancy). See Synonyms at element.
> Usage: Factor (sense 1) should only be used to refer to something which contributes to a result. It should not be used to refer to a part of something such as a plan or arrangement; instead a word such as component or element should be used.

>factor - consider as relevant when making a decision; "You must factor in the recent developments"

- =factor in, factor out
- <>consider, study - give careful consideration to; "consider the possibility of moving"

So I think most people would agree that the answer is "Yes" when you `factor` time and money into the equation!

[W] onerous (ŏn′ər-əs, ō′nər-)
>onerous - not easily borne; wearing; "the burdensome task of preparing the income tax return"; "my duties weren't onerous; I only had to greet the guests"; "a taxing schedule"

- =burdensome, taxing
- <>heavy - marked by great psychological weight; weighted down especially with sadness or troubles or weariness; "a heavy heart"; "a heavy schedule"; "heavy news"; "a heavy silence"; "heavy eyelids"

This is `onerous`, but such low-level hardware access enables skilled developers to make their own tradeoffs between fine-grained quality and speed.

2D is the primary focus of WPF; its 3D support is focused on data visualization scenarios and integration with 2D rather than supporting the full power of DirectX.
### The Evolution of WPF
[W] The second release - WPF 3.5 - came almost exactly a year later (`one day shy` in fact).
### What About Silverlight?
[W] exacerbate (ĭg-zăs′ər-bāt′)
>exacerbate - make worse; "This drug aggravates the pain"

- =aggravate, worsen, exasperate
- <>irritate - excite to an abnormal condition, or chafe or inflame; "Aspirin irritates my stomach"
- <>inflame - cause inflammation in; "The repetitive motion inflamed her joint"
- <>alter, change, modify - cause to change; make different; cause a transformation; "The advent of the automobile may have altered the growth pattern of the city"; "The discussion has changed my thinking about the issue"
- <>cheapen, degrade - lower the grade of something; reduce its worth

This is further `exacerbated` by the fact that WPF applications can run inside a web browser (as XBAPs) and be just as “web based” as Silverlight applications, and Silverlight applications can run outside a web browser, even in an offline mode.
### Summary
[W] immersive (ĭ-mûrs′)
>(Electronics) providing information or stimulation for a number of senses, not only sight and sound: immersive television sets.

WPF makes it easier than ever before to create all kinds of user interfaces, whether you want to create a traditional-looking Windows application or an `immersive` 3D experience worthy of a role in a summer blockbuster
___
##2. XAML Demystified
[W] The use of XAML encourages a separation of front-end appearance and back-end logic, which is helpful for maintenance `even if you are only a team of one`.

[W] Unlike the preceding chapter, this is a faily `deep dive`.
### XAML Defined
### Elements and Attributes
### Namespaces
### Property Elements
### Type Converters
### Markup Extensions
### Children of Object Elements
### Mixing XAML with Procedural Code
### Introducing XAML2009
### Fun with XAML Readers and Writers
### XAML Keywords
### Summary
___
##3. WPF Fundamentals
### A Tour of the Class Hierarchy
### Logical and Visual Trees
### Dependency Properties
### Summary
# II. Building a WPF Application
___
##4. Sizing, Positioning, and Transforming Elements
### Controlling Size
### Controlling Position
### Applying Transforms
### Summary
___
##5. Layout with Panels
### Canvas
### StackPanel
### WrapPanel
### DockPanel
### Grid
### Primitive Panels
### Handling Content Overflow
### Putting It All Together: Creating a Visual Studio–Like Collapsible, Dockable, Resizable Pane
### Summary
___
##6. Input Events: Keyboard, Mouse, Stylus, and Multi-Touch
### Routed Events
### Keyboard Events
### Mouse Events
### Stylus Events
### Multi-Touch Events
### Commands
### Summary
___
##7. Structuring and Deploying an Application
### Standard Windows Applications
### Navigation-Based Windows Applications
### Gadget-Style Applications
### XAML Browser Applications
### Loose XAML Pages
### Summary
___
##8. Exploiting Windows 7
### Jump Lists
### Taskbar Item Customizations
### Aero Glass
### TaskDialog
### Summary
# III. Controls
___
##9. Content Controls
### Buttons
### Simple Containers
### Containers with Headers
### Summary
___
##10. Items Controls
### Common Functionality
### Selectors
### Menus
### Other Items Controls
### Summary
___
##11. Images, Text, and Other Controls
### The Image Control
### Text and Ink Controls
### Documents
### Range Controls
### Calendar Controls
### Summary
# IV. Features for Professional Developers
___
##12. Resources
### Binary Resources
### Logical Resources
### Summary
___
##13. Data Binding
### Introducing the Binding Object
### Controlling Rendering
### Customizing the View of a Collection
### Data Providers
### Advanced Topics
### Putting It All Together: The Pure-XAML Twitter Client
### Summary
___
##14. Styles, Templates, Skins, and Themes
### Styles
### Templates
### Skins
### Themes
### Summary
# V. Rich Media
___
##15. 2D Graphics
### Drawings
### Visuals
### Shapes
### Brushes
### Effects
### Improving Rendering Performance
### Summary
___
##16. 3D Graphics
### Getting Started with 3D Graphics
### Cameras and Coordinate Systems
### Transform3D
### Model3D
### Visual3D
### Viewport3D
### 2D and 3D Coordinate System Transformation
### Summary
___
##17. Animation
### Animations in Procedural Code
### Animations in XAML
### Keyframe Animations
### Easing Functions
### Animations and the Visual State Manager
### Summary
___
##18. Audio, Video, and Speech
### Audio
### Video
### Speech
### Summary
# VI. Advanced Topics
___
##19. Interoperability with Non-WPF Technologies
### Embedding Win32 Controls in WPF Applications
### Embedding WPF Controls in Win32 Applications
### Embedding Windows Forms Controls in WPF Applications
### Embedding WPF Controls in Windows Forms Applications
### Mixing DirectX Content with WPF Content
### Embedding ActiveX Controls in WPF Applications
### Summary
___
##20. User Controls and Custom Controls
### Creating a User Control
### Creating a Custom Control
### Summary
___
##21. Layout with Custom Panels
### Communication Between Parents and Children
### Creating a SimpleCanvas
### Creating a SimpleStackPanel
### Creating an OverlapPanel
### Creating a FanCanvas
### Summary